CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to Carbide

Thank you for your interest in contributing to Carbide! We welcome contributions from the community.

## Table of Contents

- [Developer Certificate of Origin (DCO)](#developer-certificate-of-origin-dco)
- [Fork and Setup](#fork-and-setup)
- [Contribution Process](#contribution-process)
- [Pull Request Guidelines](#pull-request-guidelines)

## Developer Certificate of Origin (DCO)

Carbide requires the Developer Certificate of Origin (DCO) process to be followed for all contributions.

The DCO is a lightweight way for contributors to certify that they wrote or otherwise have the right to submit the code they are contributing. The full text of the DCO can be found at [developercertificate.org](https://developercertificate.org/):

```
Developer Certificate of Origin
Version 1.1

Copyright (C) 2004, 2006 The Linux Foundation and its contributors.

Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this
license document, but changing it is not allowed.


Developer's Certificate of Origin 1.1

By making a contribution to this project, I certify that:

(a) The contribution was created in whole or in part by me and I
    have the right to submit it under the open source license
    indicated in the file; or

(b) The contribution is based upon previous work that, to the best
    of my knowledge, is covered under an appropriate open source
    license and I have the right under that license to submit that
    work with modifications, whether created in whole or in part
    by me, under the same open source license (unless I am
    permitted to submit under a different license), as indicated
    in the file; or

(c) The contribution was provided directly to me by some other
    person who certified (a), (b) or (c) and I have not modified
    it.

(d) I understand and agree that this project and the contribution
    are public and that a record of the contribution (including all
    personal information I submit with it, including my sign-off) is
    maintained indefinitely and may be redistributed consistent with
    this project or the open source license(s) involved.
```

### Signing Your Commits

To sign off on a commit, you must add a `Signed-off-by` line to your commit message. This is done by using the `-s` or `--signoff` flag when committing:

```bash
git commit -s -m "Your commit message"
```

**Tip:** You can create a Git alias to always sign off:

```bash
git config --global alias.ci 'commit -s'
# Now use: git ci -m "Your commit message"
```

This will automatically add a line like this to your commit message:

```
Signed-off-by: Your Name <your.email@example.com>
```

Make sure your `user.name` and `user.email` are set correctly in your Git configuration:

```bash
git config --global user.name "Your Name"
git config --global user.email "your.email@example.com"
```

### Signing Off Multiple Commits

If you have multiple commits that need to be signed off, you can use interactive rebase:

```bash
git rebase HEAD~<number_of_commits> --signoff
```

Or to sign off all commits in a branch:

```bash
git rebase --signoff origin/main
```

### DCO Enforcement

All pull requests are automatically checked for DCO complianc via DCO bot. Pull requests with unsigned commits cannot be merged until all commits are properly signed off.

## Fork and Setup

Developers must first fork the upstream [Carbide repository](https://github.com/NVIDIA/carbide-core).

### 1. Fork the Repository

1. Navigate to the [Carbide repository](https://github.com/NVIDIA/carbide-core) on GitHub.
2. Click the **Fork** button in the upper right corner.
3. Select your GitHub account as the destination.

### 2. Clone Your Fork

```bash
git clone https://github.com/<your-username>/carbide-core.git
cd carbide-core
```

### 3. Add Upstream Remote

Add the original repository as an upstream remote to keep your fork in sync:

```bash
git remote add upstream https://github.com/NVIDIA/carbide-core.git
git remote -v  # Verify remotes
```

### 4. Keep Your Fork Updated

Before starting new work, sync your fork with upstream:

```bash
# Fetch upstream changes
git fetch upstream

# Switch to main branch
git checkout main

# Merge upstream changes
git merge upstream/main

# Push to your fork
git push origin main
```

### 5. Create a Feature Branch

Always create a new branch for your changes:

```bash
git checkout -b feature/your-feature-name
```

Use descriptive branch names like:
- `feature/add-new-api`
- `fix/resolve-dhcp-issue`
- `docs/update-readme`

## Contribution Process

1. **Fork the repository** and create your branch from `main`.
2. **Make your changes** following our coding guidelines.
3. **Sign off all your commits** using `git commit -s`.
4. **Submit a pull request** with a clear description of your changes.

## Pull Request Guidelines

- Provide a clear description of the problem and solution.
- Reference any related issues.
- Keep pull requests focused on a single change.
- Be responsive to feedback and code review comments.
- Ensure all CI checks pass before requesting review.

## Questions?

If you have questions about contributing, please open an issue for discussion.

Commit message:

chore: start renaming Carbide to NVIDIA Bare Metal Manager
Signed-off-by: Andrew Forgue <aforgue@nvidia.com>

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to NVIDIA Bare Metal Manager

Thank you for your interest in contributing to NVIDIA Bare Metal Manager! We welcome contributions from the community.

## Table of Contents

- [Developer Certificate of Origin (DCO)](#developer-certificate-of-origin-dco)
- [Fork and Setup](#fork-and-setup)
- [Contribution Process](#contribution-process)
- [Pull Request Guidelines](#pull-request-guidelines)

## Developer Certificate of Origin (DCO)

NVIDIA Bare Metal Manager requires the Developer Certificate of Origin (DCO) process to be followed for all contributions.

The DCO is a lightweight way for contributors to certify that they wrote or otherwise have the right to submit the code they are contributing. The full text of the DCO can be found at [developercertificate.org](https://developercertificate.org/):

```
Developer Certificate of Origin
Version 1.1

Copyright (C) 2004, 2006 The Linux Foundation and its contributors.

Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this
license document, but changing it is not allowed.


Developer's Certificate of Origin 1.1

By making a contribution to this project, I certify that:

(a) The contribution was created in whole or in part by me and I
    have the right to submit it under the open source license
    indicated in the file; or

(b) The contribution is based upon previous work that, to the best
    of my knowledge, is covered under an appropriate open source
    license and I have the right under that license to submit that
    work with modifications, whether created in whole or in part
    by me, under the same open source license (unless I am
    permitted to submit under a different license), as indicated
    in the file; or

(c) The contribution was provided directly to me by some other
    person who certified (a), (b) or (c) and I have not modified
    it.

(d) I understand and agree that this project and the contribution
    are public and that a record of the contribution (including all
    personal information I submit with it, including my sign-off) is
    maintained indefinitely and may be redistributed consistent with
    this project or the open source license(s) involved.
```

### Signing Your Commits

To sign off on a commit, you must add a `Signed-off-by` line to your commit message. This is done by using the `-s` or `--signoff` flag when committing:

```bash
git commit -s -m "Your commit message"
```

**Tip:** You can create a Git alias to always sign off:

```bash
git config --global alias.ci 'commit -s'
# Now use: git ci -m "Your commit message"
```

This will automatically add a line like this to your commit message:

```
Signed-off-by: Your Name <your.email@example.com>
```

Make sure your `user.name` and `user.email` are set correctly in your Git configuration:

```bash
git config --global user.name "Your Name"
git config --global user.email "your.email@example.com"
```

### Signing Off Multiple Commits

If you have multiple commits that need to be signed off, you can use interactive rebase:

```bash
git rebase HEAD~<number_of_commits> --signoff
```

Or to sign off all commits in a branch:

```bash
git rebase --signoff origin/main
```

### DCO Enforcement

All pull requests are automatically checked for DCO complianc via DCO bot. Pull requests with unsigned commits cannot be merged until all commits are properly signed off.

## Fork and Setup

Developers must first fork the upstream [NVIDIA Bare Metal Manager repository](https://github.com/NVIDIA/bare-metal-manager-core).

### 1. Fork the Repository

1. Navigate to the [NVIDIA Bare Metal Manager repository](https://github.com/NVIDIA/bare-metal-manager-core) on GitHub.
2. Click the **Fork** button in the upper right corner.
3. Select your GitHub account as the destination.

### 2. Clone Your Fork

```bash
git clone https://github.com/<your-username>/metal-manager.git
cd metal-manager
```

### 3. Add Upstream Remote

Add the original repository as an upstream remote to keep your fork in sync:

```bash
git remote add upstream https://github.com/NVIDIA/metal-manager.git
git remote -v  # Verify remotes
```

### 4. Keep Your Fork Updated

Before starting new work, sync your fork with upstream:

```bash
# Fetch upstream changes
git fetch upstream

# Switch to main branch
git checkout main

# Merge upstream changes
git merge upstream/main

# Push to your fork
git push origin main
```

### 5. Create a Feature Branch

Always create a new branch for your changes:

```bash
git checkout -b feature/your-feature-name
```

Use descriptive branch names like:
- `feature/add-new-api`
- `fix/resolve-dhcp-issue`
- `docs/update-readme`

## Contribution Process

1. **Fork the repository** and create your branch from `main`.
2. **Make your changes** following our coding guidelines.
3. **Sign off all your commits** using `git commit -s`.
4. **Submit a pull request** with a clear description of your changes.

## Pull Request Guidelines

- Provide a clear description of the problem and solution.
- Reference any related issues.
- Keep pull requests focused on a single change.
- Be responsive to feedback and code review comments.
- Ensure all CI checks pass before requesting review.

## Questions?

If you have questions about contributing, please open an issue for discussion.
