README.md, before:

# Carbide - Bare Metal Provisioning

Carbide delivers zero-touch lifecycle automation for bare-metal systems that
secures datacenter infrastructure at its foundation.

It is an API-based microservice that provides site-local, zero-trust,
bare-metal lifecycle management with DPU-enforced isolation. Carbide automates
the complexity of the bare-metal lifecycle to fast track to building next
generation AI Cloud offerings.

## Getting Started

- Go to the [Carbide overview](docs/overview.md) to get an overview of Carbide architecture and capabilities.
- Or jump to the [Installation guide](docs/build.md) to see an overview for building the code.
- Or jump to the [Installation guide](docs/installation/index.md) to start setting up your site for Carbide.

## Experimental Notice

This software is considered *experimental* and is a preview release.  Use at
your own risk in production environments.  The software is provided "as is"
without warranties of any kind.  Features, APIs, and confugurations may change
without notice in future releases.  For production deployments, throroghly test
in non-critical environments first.

Commit message:

chore: start renaming Carbide to NVIDIA Bare Metal Manager
Signed-off-by: Andrew Forgue <aforgue@nvidia.com>

README.md, after:

# NVIDIA Bare Metal Manager - Bare Metal Provisioning

NVIDIA Bare Metal Manager delivers zero-touch lifecycle automation for bare-metal
systems that secures datacenter infrastructure at its foundation.

It is an API-based microservice that provides site-local, zero-trust,
bare-metal lifecycle management with DPU-enforced isolation. NVIDIA Bare Metal
Manager automates the complexity of the bare-metal lifecycle to fast track to
building next generation AI Cloud offerings.

## Getting Started

- Go to the [NVIDIA Bare Metal Manager overview](docs/overview.md) to get an overview of NVIDIA Bare Metal Manager architecture and capabilities.
- Or jump to the [Installation guide](docs/build.md) to see an overview for building the code.
- Or jump to the [Installation guide](docs/installation/index.md) to start setting up your site for NVIDIA Bare Metal Manager.

## Experimental Notice

This software is considered *experimental* and is a preview release.  Use at
your own risk in production environments.  The software is provided "as is"
without warranties of any kind.  Features, APIs, and confugurations may change
without notice in future releases.  For production deployments, throroghly test
in non-critical environments first.
