.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/bug_report.md, before:

---
name: Bug report
about: Create a bug report to help us improve Carbide
title: "[BUG]"
labels: "? - Needs Triage, bug"
assignees: ''

---

**Describe the bug**
A clear and concise description of what the bug is.

**Steps/Code to reproduce bug**
Follow [this guide](http://matthewrocklin.com/blog/work/2018/02/28/minimal-bug-reports) to craft a minimal bug report. This helps us reproduce the issue you're having and resolve the issue more quickly.

**Expected behavior**
A clear and concise description of what you expected to happen.

**Environment details (please complete the following information):**
 - Environment location: [Bare-metal, Docker, Kubernetes]
 - Method of Carbide install: [source]

**Additional context**
Add any other context about the problem here.

-----
By submitting this issue, you agree to follow our [code of conduct](https://github.com/NVIDIA/carbide-core/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) and our [contributing guidelines](https://github.com/NVIDIA/carbide-core/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md).

Commit message:

chore: start renaming Carbide to NVIDIA Bare Metal Manager
Signed-off-by: Andrew Forgue <aforgue@nvidia.com>

.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/bug_report.md, after:

---
name: Bug report
about: Create a bug report to help us improve NVIDIA Bare Metal Manager
title: "[BUG]"
labels: "? - Needs Triage, bug"
assignees: ''

---

**Describe the bug**
A clear and concise description of what the bug is.

**Steps/Code to reproduce bug**
Follow [this guide](http://matthewrocklin.com/blog/work/2018/02/28/minimal-bug-reports) to craft a minimal bug report. This helps us reproduce the issue you're having and resolve the issue more quickly.

**Expected behavior**
A clear and concise description of what you expected to happen.

**Environment details (please complete the following information):**
 - Environment location: [Bare-metal, Docker, Kubernetes]
 - Method of NVIDIA Bare Metal Manager install: [source]

**Additional context**
Add any other context about the problem here.

-----
By submitting this issue, you agree to follow our [code of conduct](https://github.com/NVIDIA/bare-metal-manager-core/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) and our [contributing guidelines](https://github.com/NVIDIA/bare-metal-manager-core/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md).
